how much does it cost to build a website
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast
business growth show all right so how
much should it cost
to really build a website well first and
foremost you need to think about
why exactly do you want to build a
website is it because
your current site isn't performing very
well so perhaps you're
investing money or you're investing your
team's time into driving traffic
to the website via advertising or
marketing and it's not converting enough
visitors
into inbound sales leads or actually
maybe you run an ecommerce store and
it's not actually converting them into
to sell so to customers perhaps you just
feel the designs out of date maybe you
built your site four or five years ago
and it just
completely doesn't stack up at all with
the competition
uh maybe your customers or your
prospects are giving you feedback that
it's not
showing them what they want to see it's
not building trust with them
perhaps it's just really outdated and
just doesn't do the job well at all
maybe it's your first ever website so
you need a website because you've
started a new business
or you've moved to a new company and you
need to to get a professional
online presence or perhaps
it's just a very basic
point-and-click site to showcase what
you do
or does it need to be a really useful
resource to help your prospects out with
useful content and so think about those
reasons first and foremost
before you redesign a website or build a
fresh website for the sake of it really
understand why you're doing it
so you can set aside your goals and what
you want to do in terms of revenue
targets so you can have clear
landmarks milestones of what you want to
get out of this and if you've got a web
developer already make sure they're
crystal clear on why they're building
the website and what the end result
needs to be
especially if you're going to be
spending money on marketing
so let's look at three different types
of websites three different scenarios
that could be
so number one is going to be the online
brochure site
what does that mean well it means it's
it's not going to be a website that's
anything special it's literally
purely there to tell people you've got a
site
so it's literally just going to maybe
showcase the services you have
and maybe have a contact page and that's
about
it you're not going to be marketing it
um it doesn't need to generate any
business so it doesn't need to generate
calls or leads or
doesn't need to make sales so because
it's so basic
if if people come to me this objective i
usually challenge it and say well
you might as well just use a
do-it-yourself builder because you're
not going to be marketing it no one
really cares what it looks like
and doesn't need to have a high-end
design doesn't need to build trust or
any of those
good things doesn't need to generate
business so you might as well just go to
squarespace or wix and build a site like
that
what you can do for a few dollars a
month and so that's stage one
number two is a templated based site so
typically this is when
businesses need a kind of more shorter
term solution
that actually needs a professional look
and feel um it needs to clearly showcase
what the business does
how they help people or if it's an
ecommerce store it needs to kind of give
a clear idea of the products
and needs to build a sense of
professionalism
and look decent across mobile across
desktop across pc
to have a mobile friendly or responsive
design they maybe
the company may want to market it a
little bit so they might perhaps run a
little bit of ads do a little bit of
social media marketing maybe do a little
bit of seo
and like i say it tends to be a short
term solution this approach tends to be
for example one thing one way you might
do it is find a wordpress theme
and then rebrand it to the company's
colors so wordpress
offer a bunch of themes if you're
looking for more of an information and
lead generation site
or likewise tools like shopify offer
themes and template options whereby you
can find a template
and then you can change the logos change
the branding change the color schemes
change the copy on the site to suit the
company's needs and when you're using
themes on tools like wordpress and
others
the downfalls tend to be that the
design's a lot more generic
so it's more off the shelf so it's not
going to be very unique and over time
those sites can sometimes slow down with
bulky code especially if you're using
themes
but if you need a short term solution
and you don't want to break the bank
with it and you might do a little bit of
marketing to it
then a template site is often going to
do the job just fine
well thirdly third and finally a custom
site so
if you really want something that looks
unique it looks
looks fresh that's fully tailored to
your business so you want a real bespoke
design
for all the main pages of your site then
this this one's going to be the one for
you
why well it means that the company that
builds it can really craft it for your
ideal customers so they can
spend time doing research which we'll
talk about in a sec and really make sure
it's tailored to your
idle customers in terms of what they
want to see on the site and the main
pages
or products if your e-commerce needs to
really build trust
so it's going to leverage social proof
so things like having case studies
reviews testimonials maybe videos maybe
podcasts
accreditation so as you scroll through
the site you're seeing all these social
proof elements
and it's building trust and building
confidence
it needs to actually do an effective job
because most likely if you're going for
a custom site you're going to be
marketing it
pretty well so maybe you're driving ads
to it google adwords or facebook ads
maybe you're doing seo to get it ranked
on google
maybe you're sending an email list to it
maybe you're marketing off linkedin and
social media so it's got all this
traffic coming to it so most importantly
it needs to take people people from just
browsing to convert it
so it needs to convert them into sales
opportunities so they need to give you a
call
or fill out a lead inquiry form or get
on live chat with you if it's a b2b lead
gen site or if it's e-commerce
it needs to take them from just buying
to uh
just browsing rather to buying paid
customers
and typically it's gonna be a long-term
solution so this this is gonna be the
most expensive option
and it's gonna take a little while to
craft all the designs
develop the site and get it all built up
and so it's usually a long term
solution that's going to serve your
business well
typically to the above goals that we've
just chatted through
just to go a bit deeper on this custom
design process usually it's
it's got a few elements to it's a
research understanding of competitors
perhaps talking to your customers about
what's important to them when
looking at a vendor like yours so you
know the main elements the main pages
the main resources that need to be on
your site and really taking the time to
understand
things like the language your customers
use and making sure the content is
kind of problem-centric and not just
talking about your own company
but really nailing down kind of how your
business helps people
um and making sure that it's really a
useful
resource to people in terms of the way
it's structured
and then once you've researched and you
know the the main goals for the site why
you're doing it exactly what you want to
get out of it what customers want to see
and the content and such that you're
going to be utilizing
the site then doing prototyping so user
journeys user flows
what that what does that mean we're
mapping out all the main pages that are
going to be on the site whether that's
home page about us
all the service pages resource pages
contact pages blogs
if you've got product pages and mapping
those all out on a kind of user flow
section
and then wireframing it wireframing is
important for larger scale sites
not always needed on simple brochure
kind of five to ten page sites but when
you get bigger
more detailed sites that really need to
take people on a journey from
different sections so wireframe is
basically a bare bones
um frame of the site without any design
elements bill
if we're talking about home page for
example we have home screen
this is where the navigation goes this
is the top banner hero area these are
going to be the call to actions so
maybe learn more or inquire now or call
us today or
view products here's where the social
proof the testimonials the case studies
go
this is where the social links are this
is the footer so it maps out all the
main elements before you do any design
with the prototype and the wireframes
then design that's where you put bring
the wireframe to life
and mark out all the custom designs for
the main pages
so home page about us service pages all
the pages that make up the site and
doing those custom designs
front-end development this is usually
using something called html
javascript css and basically
bringing the how the user interacts with
your site and coding that all up
and then back end development so this is
usually done on a cms
a content management system and that
could be wordpress
that could be a bespoke coded site that
could be if your ecommerce shopify or
magento
or opencart or woocommerce there's so
many backend
cms content management system platforms
around and then once you've built the
front end how users interact once you
build your backend which is your admin
dashboard
and any integrations that are linked up
then you need to test it
on mobile devices pcs tablets test the
user journeys work well test all the
inquiry forms the phones if your
e-commerce test the payment processes
etc
then you can look to launch and start
the marketing side of things so
getting back to the point how much
should you flip and spend on this thing
um so if you're literally talking a
simple site that you're not going to
market you don't really care about you
just want something there with info on
and your contact details
squarespace or wix are just 20 to 30
bucks a month
now getting into the template site it it
completely depends if your ecommerce if
you want an e-commerce site
um i mean you can go direct to some
platforms and literally buy themes and
re-skin them yourself obviously that's
going to take time it needs experience
but for example web choice our template
sites are typically anywhere from 1.5 k
plus
for simple information based sites that
maybe need a little bit of lead gen
and upwards and if we're talking econ
maybe three
3k plus it does vary from company's
company
and if you're talking more of a custom
design and build
for lead gen sites typically ours are
around 3.5 k upwards
and if we're talking kind of 5 to 10
page information sites that need to
build trust
look real kind of fresh and custom to
the brand are well researched
and are really there to serve a purpose
any com kind of
custom ecom sites anywhere from five to
six grand plus
when you get a lot bigger than just
these simple sites
typically done at a day rate so usually
takes into
consideration the amount of days that
the steps we've just gone through
take so research prototyping design
development
testing usually agencies will price up
based on the amount of days they need
to put the solution together and then
give you a rate based on
that so there you have it that is the
summary
of how much a website should cost
hopefully that's given you some useful
pointers in terms of
what you should think about before you
can spend your hard-earned cash
and making sure that the website really
serves a purpose and helps your business
grow if you enjoyed the show please do
hit subscribe
why not leave us a five star review if
you're listening in
and with that i'll catch you on the next
episode